The Project Gutenberg eBook, Some Christmas Stories, by Charles DickensThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and mostother parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms ofthe Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll haveto check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.Title: Some Christmas StoriesAuthor: Charles DickensRelease Date: May 6, 2015  [eBook #1467][This file was first posted in June/July 1998]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: UTF-8***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SOME CHRISTMAS STORIES***Transcribed from the 1911 Chapman and Hall Christmas Stories edition,Volume 1, by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org SOME SHORT CHRISTMAS STORIES by CHARLES DICKENSCONTENTS.PAGEA Christmas Tree1What Christmas is as we Grow Older 23The Poor Relation’s Story 31The Child’s Story 47The Schoolboy’s Story 55Nobody’s Story 69A CHRISTMAS TREE.[1850]I HAVE been looking on, this evening, at a merry company of childrenassembled round that pretty German toy, a Christmas Tree.  The tree wasplanted in the middle of a great round table, and towered high abovetheir heads.  It was brilliantly lighted by a multitude of little tapers;and everywhere sparkled and glittered with bright objects.  There wererosy-cheeked dolls, hiding behind the green leaves; and there were realwatches (with movable hands, at least, and an endless capacity of beingwound up) dangling from innumerable twigs; there were French-polishedtables, chairs, bedsteads, wardrobes, eight-day clocks, and various otherarticles of domestic furniture (wonderfully made, in tin, atWolverhampton), perched among the boughs, as if in preparation for somefairy housekeeping; there were jolly, broad-faced little men, much moreagreeable in appearance than many real men—and no wonder, for their headstook off, and showed them to be full of sugar-plums; there were fiddlesand drums; there were tambourines, books, work-boxes, paint-boxes,sweetmeat-boxes, peep-show boxes, and all kinds of boxes; there weretrinkets for the elder girls, far brighter than any grown-up gold andjewels; there were baskets and pincushions in all devices; there wereguns, swords, and banners; there were witches standing in enchanted ringsof pasteboard, to tell fortunes; there were teetotums, humming-tops,needle-cases, pen-wipers, smelling-bottles, conversation-cards,bouquet-holders; real fruit, made artificially dazzling with gold leaf;imitation apples, pears, and walnuts, crammed with surprises; in short,as a pretty child, before me, delightedly whispered to another prettychild, her bosom friend, “There was everything, and more.”  This motleycollection of odd objects, clustering on the tree like magic fruit, andflashing back the bright looks directed towards it from every side—someof the diamond-eyes admiring it were hardly on a level with the table,and a few were languishing in timid wonder on the bosoms of prettymothers, aunts, and nurses—made a lively realisation of the fancies ofchildhood; and set me thinking how all the trees that grow and all thethings that come into existence on the earth, have their wild adornmentsat that well-remembered time.Being now at home again, and alone, the only person in the house awake,my thoughts are drawn back, by a fascination which I do not care toresist, to my own childhood.  I begin to consider, what do we allremember best upon the branches of the Christmas Tree of our own youngChristmas days, by which we climbed to real life.Straight, in the middle of the room, cramped in the freedom of its growthby no encircling walls or soon-reached ceiling, a shadowy tree arises;and, looking up into the dreamy brightness of its top—for I observe inthis tree the singular property that it appears to grow downward towardsthe earth—I look into my youngest Christmas recollections!All toys at first, I find.  Up yonder, among the green holly and redberries, is the Tumbler with his hands in his pockets, who wouldn’t liedown, but whenever he was put upon the floor, persisted in rolling hisfat body about, until he rolled himself still, and brought those lobstereyes of his to bear upon me—when I affected to laugh very much, but in myheart of hearts was extremely doubtful of him.  Close beside him is thatinfernal snuff-box, out of which there sprang a demoniacal Counsellor ina black gown, with an obnoxious head of hair, and a red cloth mouth, wideopen, who was not to be endured on any terms, but could not be put awayeither; for he used suddenly, in a highly magnified state, to fly out ofMammoth Snuff-boxes in dreams, when least expected.  Nor is the frog withcobbler’s wax on his tail, far off; for there was no knowing where hewouldn’t jump; and when he flew over the candle, and came upon one’s handwith that spotted back—red on a green ground—he was horrible.  Thecardboard lady in a blue-silk skirt, who was stood up against thecandlestick to dance, and whom I see on the same branch, was milder, andwas beautiful; but I can’t say as much for the larger cardboard man, whoused to be hung against the wall and pulled by a string; there was asinister expression in that nose of his; and when he got his legs roundhis neck (which he very often did), he was ghastly, and not a creature tobe alone with.When did that dreadful Mask first look at me?  Who put it on, and why wasI so frightened that the sight of it is an era in my life?  It is not ahideous visage in itself; it is even meant to be droll, why then were itsstolid features so intolerable?  Surely not because it hid the wearer’sface.  An apron would have done as much; and though I should havepreferred even the apron away, it would not have been absolutelyinsupportable, like the mask.  Was it the immovability of the mask?  Thedoll’s face was immovable, but I was not afraid of _her_.  Perhaps thatfixed and set change coming over a real face, infused into my quickenedheart some remote suggestion and dread of the universal change that is tocome on every face, and make it still?  Nothing reconciled me to it.  Nodrummers, from whom proceeded a melancholy chirping on the turning of ahandle; no regiment of soldiers, with a mute band, taken out of a box,and fitted, one by one, upon a stiff and lazy little set of lazy-tongs;no old woman, made of wires and a brown-paper composition, cutting up apie for two small children; could give me a permanent comfort, for a longtime.  Nor was it any satisfaction to be shown the Mask, and see that itwas made of paper, or to have it locked up and be assured that no onewore it.  The mere recollection of that fixed face, the mere knowledge ofits existence anywhere, was sufficient to awake me in the night allperspiration and horror, with, “O I know it’s coming!  O the mask!”I never wondered what the dear old donkey with the panniers—there he is!was made of, then!  His hide was real to the touch, I recollect.  And thegreat black horse with the round red spots all over him—the horse that Icould even get upon—I never wondered what had brought him to that strangecondition, or thought that such a horse was not commonly seen atNewmarket.  The four horses of no colour, next to him, that went into thewaggon of cheeses, and could be taken out and stabled under the piano,appear to have bits of fur-tippet for their tails, and other bits fortheir manes, and to stand on pegs instead of legs, but it was not so whenthey were brought home for a Christmas present.  They were all right,then; neither was their harness unceremoniously nailed into their chests,as appears to be the case now.  The tinkling works of the music-cart, I_did_ find out, to be made of quill tooth-picks and wire; and I alwaysthought that little tumbler in his shirt sleeves, perpetually swarming upone side of a wooden frame, and coming down, head foremost, on the other,rather a weak-minded person—though good-natured; but the Jacob’s Ladder,next him, made of little squares of red wood, that went flapping andclattering over one another, each developing a different picture, and thewhole enlivened by small bells, was a mighty marvel and a great delight.Ah!  The Doll’s house!—of which I was not proprietor, but where Ivisited.  I don’t admire the Houses of Parliament half so much as thatstone-fronted mansion with real glass windows, and door-steps, and a realbalcony—greener than I ever see now, except at watering places; and eventhey afford but a poor imitation.  And though it _did_ open all at once,the entire house-front (which was a blow, I admit, as cancelling thefiction of a staircase), it was but to shut it up again, and I couldbelieve.  Even open, there were three distinct rooms in it: asitting-room and bed-room, elegantly furnished, and best of all, akitchen, with uncommonly soft fire-irons, a plentiful assortment ofdiminutive utensils—oh, the warming-pan!—and a tin man-cook in profile,who was always going to fry two fish.  What Barmecide justice have I doneto the noble feasts wherein the set of wooden platters figured, each withits own peculiar delicacy, as a ham or turkey, glued tight on to it, andgarnished with something green, which I recollect as moss!  Could all theTemperance Societies of these later days, united, give me such atea-drinking as I have had through the means of yonder little set of bluecrockery, which really would hold liquid (it ran out of the small woodencask, I recollect, and tasted of matches), and which made tea, nectar.And if the two legs of the ineffectual little sugar-tongs did tumble overone another, and want purpose, like Punch’s hands, what does it matter?And if I did once shriek out, as a poisoned child, and strike thefashionable company with consternation, by reason of having drunk alittle teaspoon, inadvertently dissolved in too hot tea, I was never theworse for it, except by a powder!Upon the next branches of the tree, lower down, hard by the green rollerand miniature gardening-tools, how thick the books begin to hang.  Thinbooks, in themselves, at first, but many of them, and with deliciouslysmooth covers of bright red or green.  What fat black letters to beginwith!  “A was an archer, and shot at a frog.”  Of course he was.  He wasan apple-pie also, and there he is!  He was a good many things in histime, was A, and so were most of his friends, except X, who had so littleversatility, that I never knew him to get beyond Xerxes or Xantippe—likeY, who was always confined to a Yacht or a Yew Tree; and Z condemned forever to be a Zebra or a Zany.  But, now, the very tree itself changes,and becomes a bean-stalk—the marvellous bean-stalk up which Jack climbedto the Giant’s house!  And now, those dreadfully interesting,double-headed giants, with their clubs over their shoulders, begin tostride along the boughs in a perfect throng, dragging knights and ladieshome for dinner by the hair of their heads.  And Jack—how noble, with hissword of sharpness, and his shoes of swiftness!  Again those oldmeditations come upon me as I gaze up at him; and I debate within myselfwhether there was more than one Jack (which I am loth to believepossible), or only one genuine original admirable Jack, who achieved allthe recorded exploits.Good for Christmas-time is the ruddy colour of the cloak, in which—thetree making a forest of itself for her to trip through, with herbasket—Little Red Riding-Hood comes to me one Christmas Eve to give meinformation of the cruelty and treachery of that dissembling Wolf who ateher grandmother, without making any impression on his appetite, and thenate her, after making that ferocious joke about his teeth.  She was myfirst love.  I felt that if I could have married Little Red Riding-Hood,I should have known perfect bliss.  But, it was not to be; and there wasnothing for it but to look out the Wolf in the Noah’s Ark there, and puthim late in the procession on the table, as a monster who was to bedegraded.  O the wonderful Noah’s Ark!  It was not found seaworthy whenput in a washing-tub, and the animals were crammed in at the roof, andneeded to have their legs well shaken down before they could be got in,even there—and then, ten to one but they began to tumble out at the door,which was but imperfectly fastened with a wire latch—but what was _that_against it!  Consider the noble fly, a size or two smaller than theelephant: the lady-bird, the butterfly—all triumphs of art!  Consider thegoose, whose feet were so small, and whose balance was so indifferent,that he usually tumbled forward, and knocked down all the animalcreation.  Consider Noah and his family, like idiotic tobacco-stoppers;and how the leopard stuck to warm little fingers; and how the tails ofthe larger animals used gradually to resolve themselves into frayed bitsof string!Hush!  Again a forest, and somebody up in a tree—not Robin Hood, notValentine, not the Yellow Dwarf (I have passed him and all Mother Bunch’swonders, without mention), but an Eastern King with a glittering scimitarand turban.  By Allah! two Eastern Kings, for I see another, looking overhis shoulder!  Down upon the grass, at the tree’s foot, lies the fulllength of a coal-black Giant, stretched asleep, with his head in a lady’slap; and near them is a glass box, fastened with four locks of shiningsteel, in which he keeps the lady prisoner when he is awake.  I see thefour keys at his girdle now.  The lady makes signs to the two kings inthe tree, who softly descend.  It is the setting-in of the bright ArabianNights.Oh, now all common things become uncommon and enchanted to me.  All lampsare wonderful; all rings are talismans.  Common flower-pots are full oftreasure, with a little earth scattered on the top; trees are for AliBaba to hide in; beef-steaks are to throw down into the Valley ofDiamonds, that the precious stones may stick to them, and be carried bythe eagles to their nests, whence the traders, with loud cries, willscare them.  Tarts are made, according to the recipe of the Vizier’s sonof Bussorah, who turned pastrycook after he was set down in his drawersat the gate of Damascus; cobblers are all Mustaphas, and in the habit ofsewing up people cut into four pieces, to whom they are taken blind-fold.Any iron ring let into stone is the entrance to a cave which only waitsfor the magician, and the little fire, and the necromancy, that will makethe earth shake.  All the dates imported come from the same tree as thatunlucky date, with whose shell the merchant knocked out the eye of thegenie’s invisible son.  All olives are of the stock of that fresh fruit,concerning which the Commander of the Faithful overheard the boy conductthe fictitious trial of the fraudulent olive merchant; all apples areakin to the apple purchased (with two others) from the Sultan’s gardenerfor three sequins, and which the tall black slave stole from the child.All dogs are associated with the dog, really a transformed man, whojumped upon the baker’s counter, and put his paw on the piece of badmoney.  All rice recalls the rice which the awful lady, who was a ghoule,could only peck by grains, because of her nightly feasts in theburial-place.  My very rocking-horse,—there he is, with his nostrilsturned completely inside-out, indicative of Blood!—should have a peg inhis neck, by virtue thereof to fly away with me, as the wooden horse didwith the Prince of Persia, in the sight of all his father’s Court.Yes, on every object that I recognise among those upper branches of myChristmas Tree, I see this fairy light!  When I wake in bed, at daybreak,on the cold, dark, winter mornings, the white snow dimly beheld, outside,through the frost on the window-pane, I hear Dinarzade.  “Sister, sister,if you are yet awake, I pray you finish the history of the Young King ofthe Black Islands.”  Scheherazade replies, “If my lord the Sultan willsuffer me to live another day, sister, I will not only finish that, buttell you a more wonderful story yet.”  Then, the gracious Sultan goesout, giving no orders for the execution, and we all three breathe again.At this height of my tree I begin to see, cowering among the leaves—itmay be born of turkey, or of pudding, or mince pie, or of these manyfancies, jumbled with Robinson Crusoe on his desert island, Philip Quarllamong the monkeys, Sandford and Merton with Mr. Barlow, Mother Bunch, andthe Mask—or it may be the result of indigestion, assisted by imaginationand over-doctoring—a prodigious nightmare.  It is so exceedinglyindistinct, that I don’t know why it’s frightful—but I know it is.  I canonly make out that it is an immense array of shapeless things, whichappear to be planted on a vast exaggeration of the lazy-tongs that usedto bear the toy soldiers, and to be slowly coming close to my eyes, andreceding to an immeasurable distance.  When it comes closest, it isworse.  In connection with it I descry remembrances of winter nightsincredibly long; of being sent early to bed, as a punishment for somesmall offence, and waking in two hours, with a sensation of having beenasleep two nights; of the laden hopelessness of morning ever dawning; andthe oppression of a weight of remorse.And now, I see a wonderful row of little lights rise smoothly out of theground, before a vast green curtain.  Now, a bell rings—a magic bell,which still sounds in my ears unlike all other bells—and music plays,amidst a buzz of voices, and a fragrant smell of orange-peel and oil.Anon, the magic bell commands the music to cease, and the great greencurtain rolls itself up majestically, and The Play begins!  The devoteddog of Montargis avenges the death of his master, foully murdered in theForest of Bondy; and a humorous Peasant with a red nose and a very littlehat, whom I take from this hour forth to my bosom as a friend (I think hewas a Waiter or an Hostler at a village Inn, but many years have passedsince he and I have met), remarks that the sassigassity of that dog isindeed surprising; and evermore this jocular conceit will live in myremembrance fresh and unfading, overtopping all possible jokes, unto theend of time.  Or now, I learn with bitter tears how poor Jane Shore,dressed all in white, and with her brown hair hanging down, went starvingthrough the streets; or how George Barnwell killed the worthiest unclethat ever man had, and was afterwards so sorry for it that he ought tohave been let off.  Comes swift to comfort me, the Pantomime—stupendousPhenomenon!—when clowns are shot from loaded mortars into the greatchandelier, bright constellation that it is; when Harlequins, covered allover with scales of pure gold, twist and sparkle, like amazing fish; whenPantaloon (whom I deem it no irreverence to compare in my own mind to mygrandfather) puts red-hot pokers in his pocket, and cries “Here’ssomebody coming!” or taxes the Clown with petty larceny, by saying, “Now,I sawed you do it!” when Everything is capable, with the greatest ease,of being changed into Anything; and “Nothing is, but thinking makes itso.”  Now, too, I perceive my first experience of the drearysensation—often to return in after-life—of being unable, next day, to getback to the dull, settled world; of wanting to live for ever in thebright atmosphere I have quitted; of doting on the little Fairy, with thewand like a celestial Barber’s Pole, and pining for a Fairy immortalityalong with her.  Ah, she comes back, in many shapes, as my eye wandersdown the branches of my Christmas Tree, and goes as often, and has neveryet stayed by me!Out of this delight springs the toy-theatre,—there it is, with itsfamiliar proscenium, and ladies in feathers, in the boxes!—and all itsattendant occupation with paste and glue, and gum, and water colours, inthe getting-up of The Miller and his Men, and Elizabeth, or the Exile ofSiberia.  In spite of a few besetting accidents and failures(particularly an unreasonable disposition in the respectable Kelmar, andsome others, to become faint in the legs, and double up, at excitingpoints of the drama), a teeming world of fancies so suggestive andall-embracing, that, far below it on my Christmas Tree, I see dark,dirty, real Theatres in the day-time, adorned with these associations aswith the freshest garlands of the rarest flowers, and charming me yet.But hark!  The Waits are playing, and they break my childish sleep!  Whatimages do I associate with the Christmas music as I see them set forth onthe Christmas Tree?  Known before all the others, keeping far apart fromall the others, they gather round my little bed.  An angel, speaking to agroup of shepherds in a field; some travellers, with eyes uplifted,following a star; a baby in a manger; a child in a spacious temple,talking with grave men; a solemn figure, with a mild and beautiful face,raising a dead girl by the hand; again, near a city gate, calling backthe son of a widow, on his bier, to life; a crowd of people lookingthrough the opened roof of a chamber where he sits, and letting down asick person on a bed, with ropes; the same, in a tempest, walking on thewater to a ship; again, on a sea-shore, teaching a great multitude;again, with a child upon his knee, and other children round; again,restoring sight to the blind, speech to the dumb, hearing to the deaf,health to the sick, strength to the lame, knowledge to the ignorant;again, dying upon a Cross, watched by armed soldiers, a thick darknesscoming on, the earth beginning to shake, and only one voice heard,“Forgive them, for they know not what they do.”Still, on the lower and maturer branches of the Tree, Christmasassociations cluster thick.  School-books shut up; Ovid and Virgilsilenced; the Rule of Three, with its cool impertinent inquiries, longdisposed of; Terence and Plautus acted no more, in an arena of huddleddesks and forms, all chipped, and notched, and inked; cricket-bats,stumps, and balls, left higher up, with the smell of trodden grass andthe softened noise of shouts in the evening air; the tree is still fresh,still gay.  If I no more come home at Christmas-time, there will be boysand girls (thank Heaven!) while the World lasts; and they do!  Yonderthey dance and play upon the branches of my Tree, God bless them,merrily, and my heart dances and plays too!And I do come home at Christmas.  We all do, or we all should.  We allcome home, or ought to come home, for a short holiday—the longer, thebetter—from the great boarding-school, where we are for ever working atour arithmetical slates, to take, and give a rest.  As to going avisiting, where can we not go, if we will; where have we not been, whenwe would; starting our fancy from our Christmas Tree!Away into the winter prospect.  There are many such upon the tree!  On,by low-lying, misty grounds, through fens and fogs, up long hills,winding dark as caverns between thick plantations, almost shutting outthe sparkling stars; so, out on broad heights, until we stop at last,with sudden silence, at an avenue.  The gate-bell has a deep, half-awfulsound in the frosty air; the gate swings open on its hinges; and, as wedrive up to a great house, the glancing lights grow larger in thewindows, and the opposing rows of trees seem to fall solemnly back oneither side, to give us place.  At intervals, all day, a frightened harehas shot across this whitened turf; or the distant clatter of a herd ofdeer trampling the hard frost, has, for the minute, crushed the silencetoo.  Their watchful eyes beneath the fern may be shining now, if wecould see them, like the icy dewdrops on the leaves; but they are still,and all is still.  And so, the lights growing larger, and the treesfalling back before us, and closing up again behind us, as if to forbidretreat, we come to the house.There is probably a smell of roasted chestnuts and other good comfortablethings all the time, for we are telling Winter Stories—Ghost Stories, ormore shame for us—round the Christmas fire; and we have never stirred,except to draw a little nearer to it.  But, no matter for that.  We cameto the house, and it is an old house, full of great chimneys where woodis burnt on ancient dogs upon the hearth, and grim portraits (some ofthem with grim legends, too) lower distrustfully from the oaken panels ofthe walls.  We are a middle-aged nobleman, and we make a generous supperwith our host and hostess and their guests—it being Christmas-time, andthe old house full of company—and then we go to bed.  Our room is a veryold room.  It is hung with tapestry.  We don’t like the portrait of acavalier in green, over the fireplace.  There are great black beams inthe ceiling, and there is a great black bedstead, supported at the footby two great black figures, who seem to have come off a couple of tombsin the old baronial church in the park, for our particular accommodation.But, we are not a superstitious nobleman, and we don’t mind.  Well! wedismiss our servant, lock the door, and sit before the fire in ourdressing-gown, musing about a great many things.  At length we go to bed.Well! we can’t sleep.  We toss and tumble, and can’t sleep.  The emberson the hearth burn fitfully and make the room look ghostly.  We can’thelp peeping out over the counterpane, at the two black figures and thecavalier—that wicked-looking cavalier—in green.  In the flickering lightthey seem to advance and retire: which, though we are not by any means asuperstitious nobleman, is not agreeable.  Well! we get nervous—more andmore nervous.  We say “This is very foolish, but we can’t stand this;we’ll pretend to be ill, and knock up somebody.”  Well! we are just goingto do it, when the locked door opens, and there comes in a young woman,deadly pale, and with long fair hair, who glides to the fire, and sitsdown in the chair we have left there, wringing her hands.  Then, wenotice that her clothes are wet.  Our tongue cleaves to the roof of ourmouth, and we can’t speak; but, we observe her accurately.  Her clothesare wet; her long hair is dabbled with moist mud; she is dressed in thefashion of two hundred years ago; and she has at her girdle a bunch ofrusty keys.  Well! there she sits, and we can’t even faint, we are insuch a state about it.  Presently she gets up, and tries all the locks inthe room with the rusty keys, which won’t fit one of them; then, shefixes her eyes on the portrait of the cavalier in green, and says, in alow, terrible voice, “The stags know it!”  After that, she wrings herhands again, passes the bedside, and goes out at the door.  We hurry onour dressing-gown, seize our pistols (we always travel with pistols), andare following, when we find the door locked.  We turn the key, look outinto the dark gallery; no one there.  We wander away, and try to find ourservant.  Can’t be done.  We pace the gallery till daybreak; then returnto our deserted room, fall asleep, and are awakened by our servant(nothing ever haunts him) and the shining sun.  Well! we make a wretchedbreakfast, and all the company say we look queer.  After breakfast, we goover the house with our host, and then we take him to the portrait of thecavalier in green, and then it all comes out.  He was false to a younghousekeeper once attached to that family, and famous for her beauty, whodrowned herself in a pond, and whose body was discovered, after a longtime, because the stags refused to drink of the water.  Since which, ithas been whispered that she traverses the house at midnight (but goesespecially to that room where the cavalier in green was wont to sleep),trying the old locks with the rusty keys.  Well! we tell our host of whatwe have seen, and a shade comes over his features, and he begs it may behushed up; and so it is.  But, it’s all true; and we said so, before wedied (we are dead now) to many responsible people.There is no end to the old houses, with resounding galleries, and dismalstate-bedchambers, and haunted wings shut up for many years, throughwhich we may ramble, with an agreeable creeping up our back, andencounter any number of ghosts, but (it is worthy of remark perhaps)reducible to a very few general types and classes; for, ghosts havelittle originality, and “walk” in a beaten track.  Thus, it comes topass, that a certain room in a certain old hall, where a certain badlord, baronet, knight, or gentleman, shot himself, has certain planks inthe floor from which the blood _will not_ be taken out.  You may scrapeand scrape, as the present owner has done, or plane and plane, as hisfather did, or scrub and scrub, as his grandfather did, or burn and burnwith strong acids, as his great-grandfather did, but, there the bloodwill still be—no redder and no paler—no more and no less—always just thesame.  Thus, in such another house there is a haunted door, that neverwill keep open; or another door that never will keep shut, or a hauntedsound of a spinning-wheel, or a hammer, or a footstep, or a cry, or asigh, or a horse’s tramp, or the rattling of a chain.  Or else, there isa turret-clock, which, at the midnight hour, strikes thirteen when thehead of the family is going to die; or a shadowy, immovable blackcarriage which at such a time is always seen by somebody, waiting nearthe great gates in the stable-yard.  Or thus, it came to pass how LadyMary went to pay a visit at a large wild house in the Scottish Highlands,and, being fatigued with her long journey, retired to bed early, andinnocently said, next morning, at the breakfast-table, “How odd, to haveso late a party last night, in this remote place, and not to tell me ofit, before I went to bed!”  Then, every one asked Lady Mary what shemeant?  Then, Lady Mary replied, “Why, all night long, the carriages weredriving round and round the terrace, underneath my window!”  Then, theowner of the house turned pale, and so did his Lady, and CharlesMacdoodle of Macdoodle signed to Lady Mary to say no more, and every onewas silent.  After breakfast, Charles Macdoodle told Lady Mary that itwas a tradition in the family that those rumbling carriages on theterrace betokened death.  And so it proved, for, two months afterwards,the Lady of the mansion died.  And Lady Mary, who was a Maid of Honour atCourt, often told this story to the old Queen Charlotte; by this tokenthat the old King always said, “Eh, eh?  What, what?  Ghosts, ghosts?  Nosuch thing, no such thing!”  And never left off saying so, until he wentto bed.Or, a friend of somebody’s whom most of us know, when he was a young manat college, had a particular friend, with whom he made the compact that,if it were possible for the Spirit to return to this earth after itsseparation from the body, he of the twain who first died, should reappearto the other.  In course of time, this compact was forgotten by ourfriend; the two young men having progressed in life, and taken divergingpaths that were wide asunder.  But, one night, many years afterwards, ourfriend being in the North of England, and staying for the night in aninn, on the Yorkshire Moors, happened to look out of bed; and there, inthe moonlight, leaning on a bureau near the window, steadfastly regardinghim, saw his old college friend!  The appearance being solemnlyaddressed, replied, in a kind of whisper, but very audibly, “Do not comenear me.  I am dead.  I am here to redeem my promise.  I come fromanother world, but may not disclose its secrets!”  Then, the whole formbecoming paler, melted, as it were, into the moonlight, and faded away.Or, there was the daughter of the first occupier of the picturesqueElizabethan house, so famous in our neighbourhood.  You have heard abouther?  No!  Why, _She_ went out one summer evening at twilight, when shewas a beautiful girl, just seventeen years of age, to gather flowers inthe garden; and presently came running, terrified, into the hall to herfather, saying, “Oh, dear father, I have met myself!”  He took her in hisarms, and told her it was fancy, but she said, “Oh no!  I met myself inthe broad walk, and I was pale and gathering withered flowers, and Iturned my head, and held them up!”  And, that night, she died; and apicture of her story was begun, though never finished, and they say it issomewhere in the house to this day, with its face to the wall.Or, the uncle of my brother’s wife was riding home on horseback, onemellow evening at sunset, when, in a green lane close to his own house,he saw a man standing before him, in the very centre of a narrow way.“Why does that man in the cloak stand there!” he thought.  “Does he wantme to ride over him?”  But the figure never moved.  He felt a strangesensation at seeing it so still, but slackened his trot and rode forward.When he was so close to it, as almost to touch it with his stirrup, hishorse shied, and the figure glided up the bank, in a curious, unearthlymanner—backward, and without seeming to use its feet—and was gone.  Theuncle of my brother’s wife, exclaiming, “Good Heaven!  It’s my cousinHarry, from Bombay!” put spurs to his horse, which was suddenly in aprofuse sweat, and, wondering at such strange behaviour, dashed round tothe front of his house.  There, he saw the same figure, just passing inat the long French window of the drawing-room, opening on the ground.  Hethrew his bridle to a servant, and hastened in after it.  His sister wassitting there, alone.  “Alice, where’s my cousin Harry?”  “Your cousinHarry, John?”  “Yes.  From Bombay.  I met him in the lane just now, andsaw him enter here, this instant.”  Not a creature had been seen by anyone; and in that hour and minute, as it afterwards appeared, this cousindied in India.Or, it was a certain sensible old maiden lady, who died at ninety-nine,and retained her faculties to the last, who really did see the OrphanBoy; a story which has often been incorrectly told, but, of which thereal truth is this—because it is, in fact, a story belonging to ourfamily—and she was a connexion of our family.  When she was about fortyyears of age, and still an uncommonly fine woman (her lover died young,which was the reason why she never married, though she had many offers),she went to stay at a place in Kent, which her brother, anIndian-Merchant, had newly bought.  There was a story that this place hadonce been held in trust by the guardian of a young boy; who was himselfthe next heir, and who killed the young boy by harsh and cruel treatment.She knew nothing of that.  It has been said that there was a Cage in herbedroom in which the guardian used to put the boy.  There was no suchthing.  There was only a closet.  She went to bed, made no alarm whateverin the night, and in the morning said composedly to her maid when shecame in, “Who is the pretty forlorn-looking child who has been peepingout of that closet all night?”  The maid replied by giving a loud scream,and instantly decamping.  She was surprised; but she was a woman ofremarkable strength of mind, and she dressed herself and went downstairs,and closeted herself with her brother.  “Now, Walter,” she said, “I havebeen disturbed all night by a pretty, forlorn-looking boy, who has beenconstantly peeping out of that closet in my room, which I can’t open.This is some trick.”  “I am afraid not, Charlotte,” said he, “for it isthe legend of the house.  It is the Orphan Boy.  What did he do?”  “Heopened the door softly,” said she, “and peeped out.  Sometimes, he came astep or two into the room.  Then, I called to him, to encourage him, andhe shrunk, and shuddered, and crept in again, and shut the door.”  “Thecloset has no communication, Charlotte,” said her brother, “with anyother part of the house, and it’s nailed up.”  This was undeniably true,and it took two carpenters a whole forenoon to get it open, forexamination.  Then, she was satisfied that she had seen the Orphan Boy.But, the wild and terrible part of the story is, that he was also seen bythree of her brother’s sons, in succession, who all died young.  On theoccasion of each child being taken ill, he came home in a heat, twelvehours before, and said, Oh, Mamma, he had been playing under a particularoak-tree, in a certain meadow, with a strange boy—a pretty,forlorn-looking boy, who was very timid, and made signs!  From fatalexperience, the parents came to know that this was the Orphan Boy, andthat the course of that child whom he chose for his little playmate wassurely run.Legion is the name of the German castles, where we sit up alone to waitfor the Spectre—where we are shown into a room, made comparativelycheerful for our reception—where we glance round at the shadows, thrownon the blank walls by the crackling fire—where we feel very lonely whenthe village innkeeper and his pretty daughter have retired, after layingdown a fresh store of wood upon the hearth, and setting forth on thesmall table such supper-cheer as a cold roast capon, bread, grapes, and aflask of old Rhine wine—where the reverberating doors close on theirretreat, one after another, like so many peals of sullen thunder—andwhere, about the small hours of the night, we come into the knowledge ofdivers supernatural mysteries.  Legion is the name of the haunted Germanstudents, in whose society we draw yet nearer to the fire, while theschoolboy in the corner opens his eyes wide and round, and flies off thefootstool he has chosen for his seat, when the door accidentally blowsopen.  Vast is the crop of such fruit, shining on our Christmas Tree; inblossom, almost at the very top; ripening all down the boughs!Among the later toys and fancies hanging there—as idle often and lesspure—be the images once associated with the sweet old Waits, the softenedmusic in the night, ever unalterable!  Encircled by the social thoughtsof Christmas-time, still let the benignant figure of my childhood standunchanged!  In every cheerful image and suggestion that the seasonbrings, may the bright star that rested above the poor roof, be the starof all the Christian World!  A moment’s pause, O vanishing tree, of whichthe lower boughs are dark to me as yet, and let me look once more!  Iknow there are blank spaces on thy branches, where eyes that I have lovedhave shone and smiled; from which they are departed.  But, far above, Isee the raiser of the dead girl, and the Widow’s Son; and God is good!If Age be hiding for me in the unseen portion of thy downward growth, Omay I, with a grey head, turn a child’s heart to that figure yet, and achild’s trustfulness and confidence!Now, the tree is decorated with bright merriment, and song, and dance,and cheerfulness.  And they are welcome.  Innocent and welcome be theyever held, beneath the branches of the Christmas Tree, which cast nogloomy shadow!  But, as it sinks into the ground, I hear a whisper goingthrough the leaves.  “This, in commemoration of the law of love andkindness, mercy and compassion.  This, in remembrance of Me!”WHAT CHRISTMAS IS AS WE GROW OLDER.[1851]TIME was, with most of us, when Christmas Day encircling all our limitedworld like a magic ring, left nothing out for us to miss or seek; boundtogether all our home enjoyments, affections, and hopes; groupedeverything and every one around the Christmas fire; and made the littlepicture shining in our bright young eyes, complete.Time came, perhaps, all so soon, when our thoughts over-leaped thatnarrow boundary; when there was some one (very dear, we thought then,very beautiful, and absolutely perfect) wanting to the fulness of ourhappiness; when we were wanting too (or we thought so, which did just aswell) at the Christmas hearth by which that some one sat; and when weintertwined with every wreath and garland of our life that some one’sname.That was the time for the bright visionary Christmases which have longarisen from us to show faintly, after summer rain, in the palest edges ofthe rainbow!  That was the time for the beatified enjoyment of the thingsthat were to be, and never were, and yet the things that were so real inour resolute hope that it would be hard to say, now, what realitiesachieved since, have been stronger!What!  Did that Christmas never really come when we and the pricelesspearl who was our young choice were received, after the happiest oftotally impossible marriages, by the two united families previously atdaggers—drawn on our account?  When brothers and sisters-in-law who hadalways been rather cool to us before our relationship was effected,perfectly doted on us, and when fathers and mothers overwhelmed us withunlimited incomes?  Was that Christmas dinner never really eaten, afterwhich we arose, and generously and eloquently rendered honour to our laterival, present in the company, then and there exchanging friendship andforgiveness, and founding an attachment, not to be surpassed in Greek orRoman story, which subsisted until death?  Has that same rival longceased to care for that same priceless pearl, and married for money, andbecome usurious?  Above all, do we really know, now, that we shouldprobably have been miserable if we had won and worn the pearl, and thatwe are better without her?That Christmas when we had recently achieved so much fame; when we hadbeen carried in triumph somewhere, for doing something great and good;when we had won an honoured and ennobled name, and arrived and werereceived at home in a shower of tears of joy; is it possible that _that_Christmas has not come yet?And is our life here, at the best, so constituted that, pausing as weadvance at such a noticeable mile-stone in the track as this greatbirthday, we look back on the things that never were, as naturally andfull as gravely as on the things that have been and are gone, or havebeen and still are?  If it be so, and so it seems to be, must we come tothe conclusion that life is little better than a dream, and little worththe loves and strivings that we crowd into it?No!  Far be such miscalled philosophy from us, dear Reader, on ChristmasDay!  Nearer and closer to our hearts be the Christmas spirit, which isthe spirit of active usefulness, perseverance, cheerful discharge ofduty, kindness and forbearance!  It is in the last virtues especially,that we are, or should be, strengthened by the unaccomplished visions ofour youth; for, who shall say that they are not our teachers to dealgently even with the impalpable nothings of the earth!Therefore, as we grow older, let us be more thankful that the circle ofour Christmas associations and of the lessons that they bring, expands!Let us welcome every one of them, and summon them to take their places bythe Christmas hearth.Welcome, old aspirations, glittering creatures of an ardent fancy, toyour shelter underneath the holly!  We know you, and have not outlivedyou yet.  Welcome, old projects and old loves, however fleeting, to yournooks among the steadier lights that burn around us.  Welcome, all thatwas ever real to our hearts; and for the earnestness that made you real,thanks to Heaven!  Do we build no Christmas castles in the clouds now?Let our thoughts, fluttering like butterflies among these flowers ofchildren, bear witness!  Before this boy, there stretches out a Future,brighter than we ever looked on in our old romantic time, but bright withhonour and with truth.  Around this little head on which the sunny curlslie heaped, the graces sport, as prettily, as airily, as when there wasno scythe within the reach of Time to shear away the curls of ourfirst-love.  Upon another girl’s face near it—placider but smilingbright—a quiet and contented little face, we see Home fairly written.Shining from the word, as rays shine from a star, we see how, when ourgraves are old, other hopes than ours are young, other hearts than oursare moved; how other ways are smoothed; how other happiness blooms,ripens, and decays—no, not decays, for other homes and other bands ofchildren, not yet in being nor for ages yet to be, arise, and bloom andripen to the end of all!Welcome, everything!  Welcome, alike what has been, and what never was,and what we hope may be, to your shelter underneath the holly, to yourplaces round the Christmas fire, where what is sits open-hearted!  Inyonder shadow, do we see obtruding furtively upon the blaze, an enemy’sface?  By Christmas Day we do forgive him!  If the injury he has done usmay admit of such companionship, let him come here and take his place.If otherwise, unhappily, let him go hence, assured that we will neverinjure nor accuse him.On this day we shut out Nothing!“Pause,” says a low voice.  “Nothing?  Think!”“On Christmas Day, we will shut out from our fireside, Nothing.”“Not the shadow of a vast City where the withered leaves are lying deep?”the voice replies.  “Not the shadow that darkens the whole globe?  Notthe shadow of the City of the Dead?”Not even that.  Of all days in the year, we will turn our faces towardsthat City upon Christmas Day, and from its silent hosts bring those weloved, among us.  City of the Dead, in the blessed name wherein we aregathered together at this time, and in the Presence that is here among usaccording to the promise, we will receive, and not dismiss, thy peoplewho are dear to us!Yes.  We can look upon these children angels that alight, so solemnly, sobeautifully among the living children by the fire, and can bear to thinkhow they departed from us.  Entertaining angels unawares, as thePatriarchs did, the playful children are unconscious of their guests; butwe can see them—can see a radiant arm around one favourite neck, as ifthere were a tempting of that child away.  Among the celestial figuresthere is one, a poor misshapen boy on earth, of a glorious beauty now, ofwhom his dying mother said it grieved her much to leave him here, alone,for so many years as it was likely would elapse before he came toher—being such a little child.  But he went quickly, and was laid uponher breast, and in her hand she leads him.There was a gallant boy, who fell, far away, upon a burning sand beneatha burning sun, and said, “Tell them at home, with my last love, how muchI could have wished to kiss them once, but that I died contented and haddone my duty!”  Or there was another, over whom they read the words,“Therefore we commit his body to the deep,” and so consigned him to thelonely ocean and sailed on.  Or there was another, who lay down to hisrest in the dark shadow of great forests, and, on earth, awoke no more.O shall they not, from sand and sea and forest, be brought home at such atime!There was a dear girl—almost a woman—never to be one—who made a mourningChristmas in a house of joy, and went her trackless way to the silentCity.  Do we recollect her, worn out, faintly whispering what could notbe heard, and falling into that last sleep for weariness?  O look uponher now!  O look upon her beauty, her serenity, her changeless youth, herhappiness!  The daughter of Jairus was recalled to life, to die; but she,more blest, has heard the same voice, saying unto her, “Arise for ever!”We had a friend who was our friend from early days, with whom we oftenpictured the changes that were to come upon our lives, and merrilyimagined how we would speak, and walk, and think, and talk, when we cameto be old.  His destined habitation in the City of the Dead received himin his prime.  Shall he be shut out from our Christmas remembrance?Would his love have so excluded us?  Lost friend, lost child, lostparent, sister, brother, husband, wife, we will not so discard you!  Youshall hold your cherished places in our Christmas hearts, and by ourChristmas fires; and in the season of immortal hope, and on the birthdayof immortal mercy, we will shut out Nothing!The winter sun goes down over town and village; on the sea it makes arosy path, as if the Sacred tread were fresh upon the water.  A few moremoments, and it sinks, and night comes on, and lights begin to sparkle inthe prospect.  On the hill-side beyond the shapelessly-diffused town, andin the quiet keeping of the trees that gird the village-steeple,remembrances are cut in stone, planted in common flowers, growing ingrass, entwined with lowly brambles around many a mound of earth.  Intown and village, there are doors and windows closed against the weather,there are flaming logs heaped high, there are joyful faces, there ishealthy music of voices.  Be all ungentleness and harm excluded from thetemples of the Household Gods, but be those remembrances admitted withtender encouragement!  They are of the time and all its comforting andpeaceful reassurances; and of the history that re-united even upon earththe living and the dead; and of the broad beneficence and goodness thattoo many men have tried to tear to narrow shreds.THE POOR RELATION’S STORY.[1852]HE was very reluctant to take precedence of so many respected members ofthe family, by beginning the round of stories they were to relate as theysat in a goodly circle by the Christmas fire; and he modestly suggestedthat it would be more correct if “John our esteemed host” (whose healthhe begged to drink) would have the kindness to begin.  For as to himself,he said, he was so little used to lead the way that really—  But as theyall cried out here, that he must begin, and agreed with one voice that hemight, could, would, and should begin, he left off rubbing his hands, andtook his legs out from under his armchair, and did begin.I have no doubt (said the poor relation) that I shall surprise theassembled members of our family, and particularly John our esteemed hostto whom we are so much indebted for the great hospitality with which hehas this day entertained us, by the confession I am going to make.  But,if you do me the honour to be surprised at anything that falls from aperson so unimportant in the family as I am, I can only say that I shallbe scrupulously accurate in all I relate.I am not what I am supposed to be.  I am quite another thing.  Perhapsbefore I go further, I had better glance at what I _am_ supposed to be.It is supposed, unless I mistake—the assembled members of our family willcorrect me if I do, which is very likely (here the poor relation lookedmildly about him for contradiction); that I am nobody’s enemy but my own.That I never met with any particular success in anything.  That I failedin business because I was unbusiness-like and credulous—in not beingprepared for the interested designs of my partner.  That I failed inlove, because I was ridiculously trustful—in thinking it impossible thatChristiana could deceive me.  That I failed in my expectations from myuncle Chill, on account of not being as sharp as he could have wished inworldly matters.  That, through life, I have been rather put upon anddisappointed in a general way.  That I am at present a bachelor ofbetween fifty-nine and sixty years of age, living on a limited income inthe form of a quarterly allowance, to which I see that John our esteemedhost wishes me to make no further allusion.The supposition as to my present pursuits and habits is to the followingeffect.I live in a lodging in the Clapham Road—a very clean back room, in a veryrespectable house—where I am expected not to be at home in the day-time,unless poorly; and which I usually leave in the morning at nine o’clock,on pretence of going to business.  I take my breakfast—my roll andbutter, and my half-pint of coffee—at the old-established coffee-shopnear Westminster Bridge; and then I go into the City—I don’t know why—andsit in Garraway’s Coffee House, and on ’Change, and walk about, and lookinto a few offices and counting-houses where some of my relations oracquaintance are so good as to tolerate me, and where I stand by the fireif the weather happens to be cold.  I get through the day in this wayuntil five o’clock, and then I dine: at a cost, on the average, of oneand threepence.  Having still a little money to spend on my evening’sentertainment, I look into the old-established coffee-shop as I go home,and take my cup of tea, and perhaps my bit of toast.  So, as the largehand of the clock makes its way round to the morning hour again, I makemy way round to the Clapham Road again, and go to bed when I get to mylodging—fire being expensive, and being objected to by the family onaccount of its giving trouble and making a dirt.Sometimes, one of my relations or acquaintances is so obliging as to askme to dinner.  Those are holiday occasions, and then I generally walk inthe Park.  I am a solitary man, and seldom walk with anybody.  Not that Iam avoided because I am shabby; for I am not at all shabby, having alwaysa very good suit of black on (or rather Oxford mixture, which has theappearance of black and wears much better); but I have got into a habitof speaking low, and being rather silent, and my spirits are not high,and I am sensible that I am not an attractive companion.The only exception to this general rule is the child of my first cousin,Little Frank.  I have a particular affection for that child, and he takesvery kindly to me.  He is a diffident boy by nature; and in a crowd he issoon run over, as I may say, and forgotten.  He and I, however, get onexceedingly well.  I have a fancy that the poor child will in timesucceed to my peculiar position in the family.  We talk but little;still, we understand each other.  We walk about, hand in hand; andwithout much speaking he knows what I mean, and I know what he means.When he was very little indeed, I used to take him to the windows of thetoy-shops, and show him the toys inside.  It is surprising how soon hefound out that I would have made him a great many presents if I had beenin circumstances to do it.Little Frank and I go and look at the outside of the Monument—he is veryfond of the Monument—and at the Bridges, and at all the sights that arefree.  On two of my birthdays, we have dined on à-la-mode beef, and goneat half-price to the play, and been deeply interested.  I was oncewalking with him in Lombard Street, which we often visit on account of myhaving mentioned to him that there are great riches there—he is very fondof Lombard Street—when a gentleman said to me as he passed by, “Sir, yourlittle son has dropped his glove.”  I assure you, if you will excuse myremarking on so trivial a circumstance, this accidental mention of thechild as mine, quite touched my heart and brought the foolish tears intomy eyes.When Little Frank is sent to school in the country, I shall be very muchat a loss what to do with myself, but I have the intention of walkingdown there once a month and seeing him on a half holiday.  I am told hewill then be at play upon the Heath; and if my visits should be objectedto, as unsettling the child, I can see him from a distance without hisseeing me, and walk back again.  His mother comes of a highly genteelfamily, and rather disapproves, I am aware, of our being too muchtogether.  I know that I am not calculated to improve his retiringdisposition; but I think he would miss me beyond the feeling of themoment if we were wholly separated.When I die in the Clapham Road, I shall not leave much more in this worldthan I shall take out of it; but, I happen to have a miniature of abright-faced boy, with a curling head, and an open shirt-frill wavingdown his bosom (my mother had it taken for me, but I can’t believe thatit was ever like), which will be worth nothing to sell, and which I shallbeg may he given to Frank.  I have written my dear boy a little letterwith it, in which I have told him that I felt very sorry to part fromhim, though bound to confess that I knew no reason why I should remainhere.  I have given him some short advice, the best in my power, to takewarning of the consequences of being nobody’s enemy but his own; and Ihave endeavoured to comfort him for what I fear he will consider abereavement, by pointing out to him, that I was only a superfluoussomething to every one but him; and that having by some means failed tofind a place in this great assembly, I am better out of it.Such (said the poor relation, clearing his throat and beginning to speaka little louder) is the general impression about me.  Now, it is aremarkable circumstance which forms the aim and purpose of my story, thatthis is all wrong.  This is not my life, and these are not my habits.  Ido not even live in the Clapham Road.  Comparatively speaking, I am veryseldom there.  I reside, mostly, in a—I am almost ashamed to say theword, it sounds so full of pretension—in a Castle.  I do not mean that itis an old baronial habitation, but still it is a building always known toevery one by the name of a Castle.  In it, I preserve the particulars ofmy history; they run thus:It was when I first took John Spatter (who had been my clerk) intopartnership, and when I was still a young man of not more thanfive-and-twenty, residing in the house of my uncle Chill, from whom I hadconsiderable expectations, that I ventured to propose to Christiana.  Ihad loved Christiana a long time.  She was very beautiful, and verywinning in all respects.  I rather mistrusted her widowed mother, who Ifeared was of a plotting and mercenary turn of mind; but, I thought aswell of her as I could, for Christiana’s sake.  I never had loved any onebut Christiana, and she had been all the world, and O far more than allthe world, to me, from our childhood!Christiana accepted me with her mother’s consent, and I was rendered veryhappy indeed.  My life at my uncle Chill’s was of a spare dull kind, andmy garret chamber was as dull, and bare, and cold, as an upper prisonroom in some stern northern fortress.  But, having Christiana’s love, Iwanted nothing upon earth.  I would not have changed my lot with anyhuman being.Avarice was, unhappily, my uncle Chill’s master-vice.  Though he wasrich, he pinched, and scraped, and clutched, and lived miserably.  AsChristiana had no fortune, I was for some time a little fearful ofconfessing our engagement to him; but, at length I wrote him a letter,saying how it all truly was.  I put it into his hand one night, on goingto bed.As I came down-stairs next morning, shivering in the cold December air;colder in my uncle’s unwarmed house than in the street, where the wintersun did sometimes shine, and which was at all events enlivened bycheerful faces and voices passing along; I carried a heavy heart towardsthe long, low breakfast-room in which my uncle sat.  It was a large roomwith a small fire, and there was a great bay window in it which the rainhad marked in the night as if with the tears of houseless people.  Itstared upon a raw yard, with a cracked stone pavement, and some rustediron railings half uprooted, whence an ugly out-building that had oncebeen a dissecting-room (in the time of the great surgeon who hadmortgaged the house to my uncle), stared at it.We rose so early always, that at that time of the year we breakfasted bycandle-light.  When I went into the room, my uncle was so contracted bythe cold, and so huddled together in his chair behind the one dim candle,that I did not see him until I was close to the table.As I held out my hand to him, he caught up his stick (being infirm, healways walked about the house with a stick), and made a blow at me, andsaid, “You fool!”“Uncle,” I returned, “I didn’t expect you to be so angry as this.”  Norhad I expected it, though he was a hard and angry old man.“You didn’t expect!” said he; “when did you ever expect?  When did youever calculate, or look forward, you contemptible dog?”“These are hard words, uncle!”“Hard words?  Feathers, to pelt such an idiot as you with,” said he.“Here!  Betsy Snap!  Look at him!”Betsy Snap was a withered, hard-favoured, yellow old woman—our onlydomestic—always employed, at this time of the morning, in rubbing myuncle’s legs.  As my uncle adjured her to look at me, he put his leangrip on the crown of her head, she kneeling beside him, and turned herface towards me.  An involuntary thought connecting them both with theDissecting Room, as it must often have been in the surgeon’s time, passedacross my mind in the midst of my anxiety.“Look at the snivelling milksop!” said my uncle.  “Look at the baby!This is the gentleman who, people say, is nobody’s enemy but his own.This is the gentleman who can’t say no.  This is the gentleman who wasmaking such large profits in his business that he must needs take apartner, t’other day.  This is the gentleman who is going to marry a wifewithout a penny, and who falls into the hands of Jezabels who arespeculating on my death!”I knew, now, how great my uncle’s rage was; for nothing short of hisbeing almost beside himself would have induced him to utter thatconcluding word, which he held in such repugnance that it was neverspoken or hinted at before him on any account.“On my death,” he repeated, as if he were defying me by defying his ownabhorrence of the word.  “On my death—death—Death!  But I’ll spoil thespeculation.  Eat your last under this roof, you feeble wretch, and mayit choke you!”You may suppose that I had not much appetite for the breakfast to which Iwas bidden in these terms; but, I took my accustomed seat.  I saw that Iwas repudiated henceforth by my uncle; still I could bear that very well,possessing Christiana’s heart.He emptied his basin of bread and milk as usual, only that he took it onhis knees with his chair turned away from the table where I sat.  When hehad done, he carefully snuffed out the candle; and the cold,slate-coloured, miserable day looked in upon us.“Now, Mr. Michael,” said he, “before we part, I should like to have aword with these ladies in your presence.”“As you will, sir,” I returned; “but you deceive yourself, and wrong us,cruelly, if you suppose that there is any feeling at stake in thiscontract but pure, disinterested, faithful love.”To this, he only replied, “You lie!” and not one other word.We went, through half-thawed snow and half-frozen rain, to the housewhere Christiana and her mother lived.  My uncle knew them very well.They were sitting at their breakfast, and were surprised to see us atthat hour.“Your servant, ma’am,” said my uncle to the mother.  “You divine thepurpose of my visit, I dare say, ma’am.  I understand there is a world ofpure, disinterested, faithful love cooped up here.  I am happy to bringit all it wants, to make it complete.  I bring you your son-in-law,ma’am—and you, your husband, miss.  The gentleman is a perfect strangerto me, but I wish him joy of his wise bargain.”He snarled at me as he went out, and I never saw him again.    * * * * *It is altogether a mistake (continued the poor relation) to suppose thatmy dear Christiana, over-persuaded and influenced by her mother, marrieda rich man, the dirt from whose carriage wheels is often, in thesechanged times, thrown upon me as she rides by.  No, no.  She married me.The way we came to be married rather sooner than we intended, was this.I took a frugal lodging and was saving and planning for her sake, when,one day, she spoke to me with great earnestness, and said:“My dear Michael, I have given you my heart.  I have said that I lovedyou, and I have pledged myself to be your wife.  I am as much yoursthrough all changes of good and evil as if we had been married on the daywhen such words passed between us.  I know you well, and know that if weshould be separated and our union broken off, your whole life would beshadowed, and all that might, even now, be stronger in your character forthe conflict with the world would then be weakened to the shadow of whatit is!”“God help me, Christiana!” said I.  “You speak the truth.”“Michael!” said she, putting her hand in mine, in all maidenly devotion,“let us keep apart no longer.  It is but for me to say that I can livecontented upon such means as you have, and I well know you are happy.  Isay so from my heart.  Strive no more alone; let us strive together.  Mydear Michael, it is not right that I should keep secret from you what youdo not suspect, but what distresses my whole life.  My mother: withoutconsidering that what you have lost, you have lost for me, and on theassurance of my faith: sets her heart on riches, and urges another suitupon me, to my misery.  I cannot bear this, for to bear it is to beuntrue to you.  I would rather share your struggles than look on.  I wantno better home than you can give me.  I know that you will aspire andlabour with a higher courage if I am wholly yours, and let it be so whenyou will!”I was blest indeed, that day, and a new world opened to me.  We weremarried in a very little while, and I took my wife to our happy home.That was the beginning of the residence I have spoken of; the Castle wehave ever since inhabited together, dates from that time.  All ourchildren have been born in it.  Our first child—now married—was a littlegirl, whom we called Christiana.  Her son is so like Little Frank, that Ihardly know which is which.    * * * * *The current impression as to my partner’s dealings with me is also quiteerroneous.  He did not begin to treat me coldly, as a poor simpleton,when my uncle and I so fatally quarrelled; nor did he afterwardsgradually possess himself of our business and edge me out.  On thecontrary, he behaved to me with the utmost good faith and honour.Matters between us took this turn:—On the day of my separation from myuncle, and even before the arrival at our counting-house of my trunks(which he sent after me, _not_ carriage paid), I went down to our room ofbusiness, on our little wharf, overlooking the river; and there I toldJohn Spatter what had happened.  John did not say, in reply, that richold relatives were palpable facts, and that love and sentiment weremoonshine and fiction.  He addressed me thus:“Michael,” said John, “we were at school together, and I generally hadthe knack of getting on better than you, and making a higher reputation.”“You had, John,” I returned.“Although” said John, “I borrowed your books and lost them; borrowed yourpocket-money, and never repaid it; got you to buy my damaged knives at ahigher price than I had given for them new; and to own to the windowsthat I had broken.”“All not worth mentioning, John Spatter,” said I, “but certainly true.”“When you were first established in this infant business, which promisesto thrive so well,” pursued John, “I came to you, in my search for almostany employment, and you made me your clerk.”“Still not worth mentioning, my dear John Spatter,” said I; “still,equally true.”“And finding that I had a good head for business, and that I was reallyuseful _to_ the business, you did not like to retain me in that capacity,and thought it an act of justice soon to make me your partner.”“Still less worth mentioning than any of those other little circumstancesyou have recalled, John Spatter,” said I; “for I was, and am, sensible ofyour merits and my deficiencies.”“Now, my good friend,” said John, drawing my arm through his, as he hadhad a habit of doing at school; while two vessels outside the windows ofour counting-house—which were shaped like the stern windows of aship—went lightly down the river with the tide, as John and I might thenbe sailing away in company, and in trust and confidence, on our voyage oflife; “let there, under these friendly circumstances, be a rightunderstanding between us.  You are too easy, Michael.  You are nobody’senemy but your own.  If I were to give you that damaging character amongour connexion, with a shrug, and a shake of the head, and a sigh; and ifI were further to abuse the trust you place in me—”“But you never will abuse it at all, John,” I observed.“Never!” said he; “but I am putting a case—I say, and if I were furtherto abuse that trust by keeping this piece of our common affairs in thedark, and this other piece in the light, and again this other piece inthe twilight, and so on, I should strengthen my strength, and weaken yourweakness, day by day, until at last I found myself on the high road tofortune, and you left behind on some bare common, a hopeless number ofmiles out of the way.”“Exactly so,” said I.“To prevent this, Michael,” said John Spatter, “or the remotest chance ofthis, there must be perfect openness between us.  Nothing must beconcealed, and we must have but one interest.”“My dear John Spatter,” I assured him, “that is precisely what I mean.”“And when you are too easy,” pursued John, his face glowing withfriendship, “you must allow me to prevent that imperfection in yournature from being taken advantage of, by any one; you must not expect meto humour it—”“My dear John Spatter,” I interrupted, “I _don’t_ expect you to humourit.  I want to correct it.”“And I, too,” said John.“Exactly so!” cried I.  “We both have the same end in view; and,honourably seeking it, and fully trusting one another, and having but oneinterest, ours will be a prosperous and happy partnership.”“I am sure of it!” returned John Spatter.  And we shook hands mostaffectionately.I took John home to my Castle, and we had a very happy day.  Ourpartnership throve well.  My friend and partner supplied what I wanted,as I had foreseen that he would, and by improving both the business andmyself, amply acknowledged any little rise in life to which I had helpedhim.    * * * * *I am not (said the poor relation, looking at the fire as he slowly rubbedhis hands) very rich, for I never cared to be that; but I have enough,and am above all moderate wants and anxieties.  My Castle is not asplendid place, but it is very comfortable, and it has a warm andcheerful air, and is quite a picture of Home.Our eldest girl, who is very like her mother, married John Spatter’seldest son.  Our two families are closely united in other ties ofattachment.  It is very pleasant of an evening, when we are all assembledtogether—which frequently happens—and when John and I talk over oldtimes, and the one interest there has always been between us.I really do not know, in my Castle, what loneliness is.  Some of ourchildren or grandchildren are always about it, and the young voices of mydescendants are delightful—O, how delightful!—to me to hear.  My dearestand most devoted wife, ever faithful, ever loving, ever helpful andsustaining and consoling, is the priceless blessing of my house; fromwhom all its other blessings spring.  We are rather a musical family, andwhen Christiana sees me, at any time, a little weary or depressed, shesteals to the piano and sings a gentle air she used to sing when we werefirst betrothed.  So weak a man am I, that I cannot bear to hear it fromany other source.  They played it once, at the Theatre, when I was therewith Little Frank; and the child said wondering, “Cousin Michael, whosehot tears are these that have fallen on my hand!”Such is my Castle, and such are the real particulars of my life thereinpreserved.  I often take Little Frank home there.  He is very welcome tomy grandchildren, and they play together.  At this time of the year—theChristmas and New Year time—I am seldom out of my Castle.  For, theassociations of the season seem to hold me there, and the precepts of theseason seem to teach me that it is well to be there.    * * * * *“And the Castle is—” observed a grave, kind voice among the company.“Yes.  My Castle,” said the poor relation, shaking his head as he stilllooked at the fire, “is in the Air.  John our esteemed host suggests itssituation accurately.  My Castle is in the Air!  I have done.  Will yoube so good as to pass the story?”THE CHILD’S STORY.[1852]ONCE upon a time, a good many years ago, there was a traveller, and heset out upon a journey.  It was a magic journey, and was to seem verylong when he began it, and very short when he got half way through.He travelled along a rather dark path for some little time, withoutmeeting anything, until at last he came to a beautiful child.  So he saidto the child, “What do you do here?”  And the child said, “I am always atplay.  Come and play with me!”So, he played with that child, the whole day long, and they were verymerry.  The sky was so blue, the sun was so bright, the water was sosparkling, the leaves were so green, the flowers were so lovely, and theyheard such singing-birds and saw so many butteries, that everything wasbeautiful.  This was in fine weather.  When it rained, they loved towatch the falling drops, and to smell the fresh scents.  When it blew, itwas delightful to listen to the wind, and fancy what it said, as it camerushing from its home—where was that, they wondered!—whistling andhowling, driving the clouds before it, bending the trees, rumbling in thechimneys, shaking the house, and making the sea roar in fury.  But, whenit snowed, that was best of all; for, they liked nothing so well as tolook up at the white flakes falling fast and thick, like down from thebreasts of millions of white birds; and to see how smooth and deep thedrift was; and to listen to the hush upon the paths and roads.They had plenty of the finest toys in the world, and the most astonishingpicture-books: all about scimitars and slippers and turbans, and dwarfsand giants and genii and fairies, and blue-beards and bean-stalks andriches and caverns and forests and Valentines and Orsons: and all new andall true.But, one day, of a sudden, the traveller lost the child.  He called tohim over and over again, but got no answer.  So, he went upon his road,and went on for a little while without meeting anything, until at last hecame to a handsome boy.  So, he said to the boy, “What do you do here?”And the boy said, “I am always learning.  Come and learn with me.”So he learned with that boy about Jupiter and Juno, and the Greeks andthe Romans, and I don’t know what, and learned more than I could tell—orhe either, for he soon forgot a great deal of it.  But, they were notalways learning; they had the merriest games that ever were played.  Theyrowed upon the river in summer, and skated on the ice in winter; theywere active afoot, and active on horseback; at cricket, and all games atball; at prisoner’s base, hare and hounds, follow my leader, and moresports than I can think of; nobody could beat them.  They had holidaystoo, and Twelfth cakes, and parties where they danced till midnight, andreal Theatres where they saw palaces of real gold and silver rise out ofthe real earth, and saw all the wonders of the world at once.  As tofriends, they had such dear friends and so many of them, that I want thetime to reckon them up.  They were all young, like the handsome boy, andwere never to be strange to one another all their lives through.Still, one day, in the midst of all these pleasures, the traveller lostthe boy as he had lost the child, and, after calling to him in vain, wenton upon his journey.  So he went on for a little while without seeinganything, until at last he came to a young man.  So, he said to the youngman, “What do you do here?”  And the young man said, “I am always inlove.  Come and love with me.”So, he went away with that young man, and presently they came to one ofthe prettiest girls that ever was seen—just like Fanny in the cornerthere—and she had eyes like Fanny, and hair like Fanny, and dimples likeFanny’s, and she laughed and coloured just as Fanny does while I amtalking about her.  So, the young man fell in love directly—just asSomebody I won’t mention, the first time he came here, did with Fanny.Well! he was teased sometimes—just as Somebody used to be by Fanny; andthey quarrelled sometimes—just as Somebody and Fanny used to quarrel; andthey made it up, and sat in the dark, and wrote letters every day, andnever were happy asunder, and were always looking out for one another andpretending not to, and were engaged at Christmas-time, and sat close toone another by the fire, and were going to be married very soon—allexactly like Somebody I won’t mention, and Fanny!But, the traveller lost them one day, as he had lost the rest of hisfriends, and, after calling to them to come back, which they never did,went on upon his journey.  So, he went on for a little while withoutseeing anything, until at last he came to a middle-aged gentleman.  So,he said to the gentleman, “What are you doing here?”  And his answer was,“I am always busy.  Come and be busy with me!”So, he began to be very busy with that gentleman, and they went onthrough the wood together.  The whole journey was through a wood, only ithad been open and green at first, like a wood in spring; and now began tobe thick and dark, like a wood in summer; some of the little trees thathad come out earliest, were even turning brown.  The gentleman was notalone, but had a lady of about the same age with him, who was his Wife;and they had children, who were with them too.  So, they all went ontogether through the wood, cutting down the trees, and making a paththrough the branches and the fallen leaves, and carrying burdens, andworking hard.Sometimes, they came to a long green avenue that opened into deeperwoods.  Then they would hear a very little, distant voice crying,“Father, father, I am another child!  Stop for me!”  And presently theywould see a very little figure, growing larger as it came along, runningto join them.  When it came up, they all crowded round it, and kissed andwelcomed it; and then they all went on together.Sometimes, they came to several avenues at once, and then they all stoodstill, and one of the children said, “Father, I am going to sea,” andanother said, “Father, I am going to India,” and another, “Father, I amgoing to seek my fortune where I can,” and another, “Father, I am goingto Heaven!”  So, with many tears at parting, they went, solitary, downthose avenues, each child upon its way; and the child who went to Heaven,rose into the golden air and vanished.Whenever these partings happened, the traveller looked at the gentleman,and saw him glance up at the sky above the trees, where the day wasbeginning to decline, and the sunset to come on.  He saw, too, that hishair was turning grey.  But, they never could rest long, for they hadtheir journey to perform, and it was necessary for them to be alwaysbusy.At last, there had been so many partings that there were no childrenleft, and only the traveller, the gentleman, and the lady, went upontheir way in company.  And now the wood was yellow; and now brown; andthe leaves, even of the forest trees, began to fall.So, they came to an avenue that was darker than the rest, and werepressing forward on their journey without looking down it when the ladystopped.“My husband,” said the lady.  “I am called.”They listened, and they heard a voice a long way down the avenue, say,“Mother, mother!”It was the voice of the first child who had said, “I am going to Heaven!”and the father said, “I pray not yet.  The sunset is very near.  I praynot yet!”But, the voice cried, “Mother, mother!” without minding him, though hishair was now quite white, and tears were on his face.Then, the mother, who was already drawn into the shade of the dark avenueand moving away with her arms still round his neck, kissed him, and said,“My dearest, I am summoned, and I go!”  And she was gone.  And thetraveller and he were left alone together.And they went on and on together, until they came to very near the end ofthe wood: so near, that they could see the sunset shining red before themthrough the trees.Yet, once more, while he broke his way among the branches, the travellerlost his friend.  He called and called, but there was no reply, and whenhe passed out of the wood, and saw the peaceful sun going down upon awide purple prospect, he came to an old man sitting on a fallen tree.So, he said to the old man, “What do you do here?”  And the old man saidwith a calm smile, “I am always remembering.  Come and remember with me!”So the traveller sat down by the side of that old man, face to face withthe serene sunset; and all his friends came softly back and stood aroundhim.  The beautiful child, the handsome boy, the young man in love, thefather, mother, and children: every one of them was there, and he hadlost nothing.  So, he loved them all, and was kind and forbearing withthem all, and was always pleased to watch them all, and they all honouredand loved him.  And I think the traveller must be yourself, dearGrandfather, because this what you do to us, and what we do to you.THE SCHOOLBOY’S STORY.[1853]BEING rather young at present—I am getting on in years, but still I amrather young—I have no particular adventures of my own to fall back upon.It wouldn’t much interest anybody here, I suppose, to know what a screwthe Reverend is, or what a griffin _she_ is, or how they do stick it intoparents—particularly hair-cutting, and medical attendance.  One of ourfellows was charged in his half’s account twelve and sixpence for twopills—tolerably profitable at six and threepence a-piece, I shouldthink—and he never took them either, but put them up the sleeve of hisjacket.        [Picture: Schoolboy with book: illustrated by Fred Walker]As to the beef, it’s shameful.  It’s _not_ beef.  Regular beef isn’tveins.  You can chew regular beef.  Besides which, there’s gravy toregular beef, and you never see a drop to ours.  Another of our fellowswent home ill, and heard the family doctor tell his father that hecouldn’t account for his complaint unless it was the beer.  Of course itwas the beer, and well it might be!However, beef and Old Cheeseman are two different things.  So is beer.It was Old Cheeseman I meant to tell about; not the manner in which ourfellows get their constitutions destroyed for the sake of profit.Why, look at the pie-crust alone.  There’s no flakiness in it.  It’ssolid—like damp lead.  Then our fellows get nightmares, and are bolsteredfor calling out and waking other fellows.  Who can wonder!Old Cheeseman one night walked in his sleep, put his hat on over hisnight-cap, got hold of a fishing-rod and a cricket-bat, and went downinto the parlour, where they naturally thought from his appearance he wasa Ghost.  Why, he never would have done that if his meals had beenwholesome.  When we all begin to walk in our sleeps, I suppose they’ll besorry for it.Old Cheeseman wasn’t second Latin Master then; he was a fellow himself.He was first brought there, very small, in a post-chaise, by a woman whowas always taking snuff and shaking him—and that was the most heremembered about it.  He never went home for the holidays.  His accounts(he never learnt any extras) were sent to a Bank, and the Bank paid them;and he had a brown suit twice a-year, and went into boots at twelve.They were always too big for him, too.In the Midsummer holidays, some of our fellows who lived within walkingdistance, used to come back and climb the trees outside the playgroundwall, on purpose to look at Old Cheeseman reading there by himself.  Hewas always as mild as the tea—and _that’s_ pretty mild, I should hope!—sowhen they whistled to him, he looked up and nodded; and when they said,“Halloa, Old Cheeseman, what have you had for dinner?” he said, “Boiledmutton;” and when they said, “An’t it solitary, Old Cheeseman?” he said,“It is a little dull sometimes:” and then they said, “Well good-bye, OldCheeseman!” and climbed down again.  Of course it was imposing on OldCheeseman to give him nothing but boiled mutton through a whole Vacation,but that was just like the system.  When they didn’t give him boiledmutton, they gave him rice pudding, pretending it was a treat.  And savedthe butcher.So Old Cheeseman went on.  The holidays brought him into other troublebesides the loneliness; because when the fellows began to come back, notwanting to, he was always glad to see them; which was aggravating whenthey were not at all glad to see him, and so he got his head knockedagainst walls, and that was the way his nose bled.  But he was afavourite in general.  Once a subscription was raised for him; and, tokeep up his spirits, he was presented before the holidays with two whitemice, a rabbit, a pigeon, and a beautiful puppy.  Old Cheeseman criedabout it—especially soon afterwards, when they all ate one another.Of course Old Cheeseman used to be called by the names of all sorts ofcheeses—Double Glo’sterman, Family Cheshireman, Dutchman, NorthWiltshireman, and all that.  But he never minded it.  And I don’t mean tosay he was old in point of years—because he wasn’t—only he was calledfrom the first, Old Cheeseman.At last, Old Cheeseman was made second Latin Master.  He was brought inone morning at the beginning of a new half, and presented to the schoolin that capacity as “Mr. Cheeseman.”  Then our fellows all agreed thatOld Cheeseman was a spy, and a deserter, who had gone over to the enemy’scamp, and sold himself for gold.  It was no excuse for him that he hadsold himself for very little gold—two pound ten a quarter and hiswashing, as was reported.  It was decided by a Parliament which sat aboutit, that Old Cheeseman’s mercenary motives could alone be taken intoaccount, and that he had “coined our blood for drachmas.”  The Parliamenttook the expression out of the quarrel scene between Brutus and Cassius.When it was settled in this strong way that Old Cheeseman was atremendous traitor, who had wormed himself into our fellows’ secrets onpurpose to get himself into favour by giving up everything he knew, allcourageous fellows were invited to come forward and enrol themselves in aSociety for making a set against him.  The President of the Society wasFirst boy, named Bob Tarter.  His father was in the West Indies, and heowned, himself, that his father was worth Millions.  He had great poweramong our fellows, and he wrote a parody, beginning—    “Who made believe to be so meek    That we could hardly hear him speak,    Yet turned out an Informing Sneak?                         Old Cheeseman.”—and on in that way through more than a dozen verses, which he used to goand sing, every morning, close by the new master’s desk.  He trained oneof the low boys, too, a rosy-cheeked little Brass who didn’t care what hedid, to go up to him with his Latin Grammar one morning, and say it so:_Nominativus pronominum_—Old Cheeseman, _raro exprimitur_—was neversuspected, _nisi distinctionis_—of being an informer, _aut emphasisgratîa_—until he proved one.  _Ut_—for instance, _Vos damnastis_—when hesold the boys.  _Quasi_—as though, _dicat_—he should say, _Pretæreanemo_—I’m a Judas!  All this produced a great effect on Old Cheeseman.He had never had much hair; but what he had, began to get thinner andthinner every day.  He grew paler and more worn; and sometimes of anevening he was seen sitting at his desk with a precious long snuff to hiscandle, and his hands before his face, crying.  But no member of theSociety could pity him, even if he felt inclined, because the Presidentsaid it was Old Cheeseman’s conscience.So Old Cheeseman went on, and didn’t he lead a miserable life!  Of coursethe Reverend turned up his nose at him, and of course _she_ did—becauseboth of them always do that at all the masters—but he suffered from thefellows most, and he suffered from them constantly.  He never told aboutit, that the Society could find out; but he got no credit for that,because the President said it was Old Cheeseman’s cowardice.He had only one friend in the world, and that one was almost as powerlessas he was, for it was only Jane.  Jane was a sort of wardrobe woman toour fellows, and took care of the boxes.  She had come at first, Ibelieve, as a kind of apprentice—some of our fellows say from a Charity,but _I_ don’t know—and after her time was out, had stopped at so much ayear.  So little a year, perhaps I ought to say, for it is far morelikely.  However, she had put some pounds in the Savings’ Bank, and shewas a very nice young woman.  She was not quite pretty; but she had avery frank, honest, bright face, and all our fellows were fond of her.She was uncommonly neat and cheerful, and uncommonly comfortable andkind.  And if anything was the matter with a fellow’s mother, he alwayswent and showed the letter to Jane.Jane was Old Cheeseman’s friend.  The more the Society went against him,the more Jane stood by him.  She used to give him a good-humoured lookout of her still-room window, sometimes, that seemed to set him up forthe day.  She used to pass out of the orchard and the kitchen garden(always kept locked, I believe you!) through the playground, when shemight have gone the other way, only to give a turn of her head, as muchas to say “Keep up your spirits!” to Old Cheeseman.  His slip of a roomwas so fresh and orderly that it was well known who looked after it whilehe was at his desk; and when our fellows saw a smoking hot dumpling onhis plate at dinner, they knew with indignation who had sent it up.Under these circumstances, the Society resolved, after a quantity ofmeeting and debating, that Jane should be requested to cut Old Cheesemandead; and that if she refused, she must be sent to Coventry herself.  Soa deputation, headed by the President, was appointed to wait on Jane, andinform her of the vote the Society had been under the painful necessityof passing.  She was very much respected for all her good qualities, andthere was a story about her having once waylaid the Reverend in his ownstudy, and got a fellow off from severe punishment, of her own kindcomfortable heart.  So the deputation didn’t much like the job.  However,they went up, and the President told Jane all about it.  Upon which Janeturned very red, burst into tears, informed the President and thedeputation, in a way not at all like her usual way, that they were aparcel of malicious young savages, and turned the whole respected bodyout of the room.  Consequently it was entered in the Society’s book (keptin astronomical cypher for fear of detection), that all communicationwith Jane was interdicted: and the President addressed the members onthis convincing instance of Old Cheeseman’s undermining.But Jane was as true to Old Cheeseman as Old Cheeseman was false to ourfellows—in their opinion, at all events—and steadily continued to be hisonly friend.  It was a great exasperation to the Society, because Janewas as much a loss to them as she was a gain to him; and being moreinveterate against him than ever, they treated him worse than ever.  Atlast, one morning, his desk stood empty, his room was peeped into, andfound to be vacant, and a whisper went about among the pale faces of ourfellows that Old Cheeseman, unable to bear it any longer, had got upearly and drowned himself.The mysterious looks of the other masters after breakfast, and theevident fact that old Cheeseman was not expected, confirmed the Societyin this opinion.  Some began to discuss whether the President was liableto hanging or only transportation for life, and the President’s faceshowed a great anxiety to know which.  However, he said that a jury ofhis country should find him game; and that in his address he should putit to them to lay their hands upon their hearts and say whether they asBritons approved of informers, and how they thought they would like itthemselves.  Some of the Society considered that he had better run awayuntil he found a forest where he might change clothes with a wood-cutter,and stain his face with blackberries; but the majority believed that ifhe stood his ground, his father—belonging as he did to the West Indies,and being worth millions—could buy him off.All our fellows’ hearts beat fast when the Reverend came in, and made asort of a Roman, or a Field Marshal, of himself with the ruler; as healways did before delivering an address.  But their fears were nothing totheir astonishment when he came out with the story that Old Cheeseman,“so long our respected friend and fellow-pilgrim in the pleasant plainsof knowledge,” he called him—O yes!  I dare say!  Much of that!—was theorphan child of a disinherited young lady who had married against herfather’s wish, and whose young husband had died, and who had died ofsorrow herself, and whose unfortunate baby (Old Cheeseman) had beenbrought up at the cost of a grandfather who would never consent to seeit, baby, boy, or man: which grandfather was now dead, and serve himright—that’s my putting in—and which grandfather’s large property, therebeing no will, was now, and all of a sudden and for ever, OldCheeseman’s!  Our so long respected friend and fellow-pilgrim in thepleasant plains of knowledge, the Reverend wound up a lot of botheringquotations by saying, would “come among us once more” that day fortnight,when he desired to take leave of us himself, in a more particular manner.With these words, he stared severely round at our fellows, and wentsolemnly out.There was precious consternation among the members of the Society, now.Lots of them wanted to resign, and lots more began to try to make outthat they had never belonged to it.  However, the President stuck up, andsaid that they must stand or fall together, and that if a breach was madeit should be over his body—which was meant to encourage the Society: butit didn’t.  The President further said, he would consider the position inwhich they stood, and would give them his best opinion and advice in afew days.  This was eagerly looked for, as he knew a good deal of theworld on account of his father’s being in the West Indies.After days and days of hard thinking, and drawing armies all over hisslate, the President called our fellows together, and made the matterclear.  He said it was plain that when Old Cheeseman came on theappointed day, his first revenge would be to impeach the Society, andhave it flogged all round.  After witnessing with joy the torture of hisenemies, and gloating over the cries which agony would extort from them,the probability was that he would invite the Reverend, on pretence ofconversation, into a private room—say the parlour into which Parents wereshown, where the two great globes were which were never used—and wouldthere reproach him with the various frauds and oppressions he had enduredat his hands.  At the close of his observations he would make a signal toa Prizefighter concealed in the passage, who would then appear and pitchinto the Reverend, till he was left insensible.  Old Cheeseman would thenmake Jane a present of from five to ten pounds, and would leave theestablishment in fiendish triumph.The President explained that against the parlour part, or the Jane part,of these arrangements he had nothing to say; but, on the part of theSociety, he counselled deadly resistance.  With this view he recommendedthat all available desks should be filled with stones, and that the firstword of the complaint should be the signal to every fellow to let fly atOld Cheeseman.  The bold advice put the Society in better spirits, andwas unanimously taken.  A post about Old Cheeseman’s size was put up inthe playground, and all our fellows practised at it till it was dintedall over.When the day came, and Places were called, every fellow sat down in atremble.  There had been much discussing and disputing as to how OldCheeseman would come; but it was the general opinion that he would appearin a sort of triumphal car drawn by four horses, with two livery servantsin front, and the Prizefighter in disguise up behind.  So, all ourfellows sat listening for the sound of wheels.  But no wheels were heard,for Old Cheeseman walked after all, and came into the school without anypreparation.  Pretty much as he used to be, only dressed in black.“Gentlemen,” said the Reverend, presenting him, “our so long respectedfriend and fellow-pilgrim in the pleasant plains of knowledge, isdesirous to offer a word or two.  Attention, gentlemen, one and all!”Every fellow stole his hand into his desk and looked at the President.The President was all ready, and taking aim at old Cheeseman with hiseyes.What did Old Cheeseman then, but walk up to his old desk, look round himwith a queer smile as if there was a tear in his eye, and begin in aquavering, mild voice, “My dear companions and old friends!”Every fellow’s hand came out of his desk, and the President suddenlybegan to cry.“My dear companions and old friends,” said Old Cheeseman, “you have heardof my good fortune.  I have passed so many years under this roof—myentire life so far, I may say—that I hope you have been glad to hear ofit for my sake.  I could never enjoy it without exchangingcongratulations with you.  If we have ever misunderstood one another atall, pray, my dear boys, let us forgive and forget.  I have a greattenderness for you, and I am sure you return it.  I want in the fulnessof a grateful heart to shake hands with you every one.  I have come backto do it, if you please, my dear boys.”Since the President had begun to cry, several other fellows had brokenout here and there: but now, when Old Cheeseman began with him as firstboy, laid his left hand affectionately on his shoulder and gave him hisright; and when the President said “Indeed, I don’t deserve it, sir; uponmy honour I don’t;” there was sobbing and crying all over the school.Every other fellow said he didn’t deserve it, much in the same way; butOld Cheeseman, not minding that a bit, went cheerfully round to everyboy, and wound up with every master—finishing off the Reverend last.Then a snivelling little chap in a corner, who was always under somepunishment or other, set up a shrill cry of “Success to Old Cheeseman!Hooray!”  The Reverend glared upon him, and said, “_Mr._ Cheeseman, sir.”But, Old Cheeseman protesting that he liked his old name a great dealbetter than his new one, all our fellows took up the cry; and, for Idon’t know how many minutes, there was such a thundering of feet andhands, and such a roaring of Old Cheeseman, as never was heard.After that, there was a spread in the dining-room of the most magnificentkind.  Fowls, tongues, preserves, fruits, confectionaries, jellies,neguses, barley-sugar temples, trifles, crackers—eat all you can andpocket what you like—all at Old Cheeseman’s expense.  After that,speeches, whole holiday, double and treble sets of all manners of thingsfor all manners of games, donkeys, pony-chaises and drive yourself,dinner for all the masters at the Seven Bells (twenty pounds a-head ourfellows estimated it at), an annual holiday and feast fixed for that dayevery year, and another on Old Cheeseman’s birthday—Reverend bound downbefore the fellows to allow it, so that he could never back out—all atOld Cheeseman’s expense.And didn’t our fellows go down in a body and cheer outside the SevenBells?  O no!But there’s something else besides.  Don’t look at the next story-teller,for there’s more yet.  Next day, it was resolved that the Society shouldmake it up with Jane, and then be dissolved.  What do you think of Janebeing gone, though!  “What?  Gone for ever?” said our fellows, with longfaces.  “Yes, to be sure,” was all the answer they could get.  None ofthe people about the house would say anything more.  At length, the firstboy took upon himself to ask the Reverend whether our old friend Jane wasreally gone?  The Reverend (he has got a daughter at home—turn-up nose,and red) replied severely, “Yes, sir, Miss Pitt is gone.”  The idea ofcalling Jane, Miss Pitt!  Some said she had been sent away in disgracefor taking money from Old Cheeseman; others said she had gone into OldCheeseman’s service at a rise of ten pounds a year.  All that our fellowsknew, was, she was gone.It was two or three months afterwards, when, one afternoon, an opencarriage stopped at the cricket field, just outside bounds, with a ladyand gentleman in it, who looked at the game a long time and stood up tosee it played.  Nobody thought much about them, until the same littlesnivelling chap came in, against all rules, from the post where he wasScout, and said, “It’s Jane!”  Both Elevens forgot the game directly, andran crowding round the carriage.  It _was_ Jane!  In such a bonnet!  Andif you’ll believe me, Jane was married to Old Cheeseman.It soon became quite a regular thing when our fellows were hard at it inthe playground, to see a carriage at the low part of the wall where itjoins the high part, and a lady and gentleman standing up in it, lookingover.  The gentleman was always Old Cheeseman, and the lady was alwaysJane.The first time I ever saw them, I saw them in that way.  There had been agood many changes among our fellows then, and it had turned out that BobTarter’s father wasn’t worth Millions!  He wasn’t worth anything.  Bobhad gone for a soldier, and Old Cheeseman had purchased his discharge.But that’s not the carriage.  The carriage stopped, and all our fellowsstopped as soon as it was seen.“So you have never sent me to Coventry after all!” said the lady,laughing, as our fellows swarmed up the wall to shake hands with her.“Are you never going to do it?”“Never! never! never!” on all sides.I didn’t understand what she meant then, but of course I do now.  I wasvery much pleased with her face though, and with her good way, and Icouldn’t help looking at her—and at him too—with all our fellowsclustering so joyfully about them.They soon took notice of me as a new boy, so I thought I might as wellswarm up the wall myself, and shake hands with them as the rest did.  Iwas quite as glad to see them as the rest were, and was quite as familiarwith them in a moment.“Only a fortnight now,” said Old Cheeseman, “to the holidays.  Who stops?Anybody?”A good many fingers pointed at me, and a good many voices cried “Hedoes!”  For it was the year when you were all away; and rather low I wasabout it, I can tell you.“Oh!” said Old Cheeseman.  “But it’s solitary here in the holiday time.He had better come to us.”So I went to their delightful house, and was as happy as I could possiblybe.  They understand how to conduct themselves towards boys, _they_ do.When they take a boy to the play, for instance, they _do_ take him.  Theydon’t go in after it’s begun, or come out before it’s over.  They knowhow to bring a boy up, too.  Look at their own!  Though he is very littleas yet, what a capital boy he is!  Why, my next favourite to Mrs.Cheeseman and Old Cheeseman, is young Cheeseman.So, now I have told you all I know about Old Cheeseman.  And it’s notmuch after all, I am afraid.  Is it?NOBODY’S STORYHE lived on the bank of a mighty river, broad and deep, which was alwayssilently rolling on to a vast undiscovered ocean.  It had rolled on, eversince the world began.  It had changed its course sometimes, and turnedinto new channels, leaving its old ways dry and barren; but it had everbeen upon the flow, and ever was to flow until Time should be no more.Against its strong, unfathomable stream, nothing made head.  No livingcreature, no flower, no leaf, no particle of animate or inanimateexistence, ever strayed back from the undiscovered ocean.  The tide ofthe river set resistlessly towards it; and the tide never stopped, anymore than the earth stops in its circling round the sun.He lived in a busy place, and he worked very hard to live.  He had nohope of ever being rich enough to live a month without hard work, but hewas quite content, GOD knows, to labour with a cheerful will.  He was oneof an immense family, all of whose sons and daughters gained their dailybread by daily work, prolonged from their rising up betimes until theirlying down at night.  Beyond this destiny he had no prospect, and hesought none.There was over-much drumming, trumpeting, and speech-making, in theneighbourhood where he dwelt; but he had nothing to do with that.  Suchclash and uproar came from the Bigwig family, at the unaccountableproceedings of which race, he marvelled much.  They set up the strangeststatues, in iron, marble, bronze, and brass, before his door; anddarkened his house with the legs and tails of uncouth images of horses.He wondered what it all meant, smiled in a rough good-humoured way hehad, and kept at his hard work.The Bigwig family (composed of all the stateliest people thereabouts, andall the noisiest) had undertaken to save him the trouble of thinking forhimself, and to manage him and his affairs.  “Why truly,” said he, “Ihave little time upon my hands; and if you will be so good as to takecare of me, in return for the money I pay over”—for the Bigwig familywere not above his money—“I shall be relieved and much obliged,considering that you know best.”  Hence the drumming, trumpeting, andspeech-making, and the ugly images of horses which he was expected tofall down and worship.“I don’t understand all this,” said he, rubbing his furrowed browconfusedly.  “But it _has_ a meaning, maybe, if I could find it out.”“It means,” returned the Bigwig family, suspecting something of what hesaid, “honour and glory in the highest, to the highest merit.”“Oh!” said he.  And he was glad to hear that.But, when he looked among the images in iron, marble, bronze, and brass,he failed to find a rather meritorious countryman of his, once the son ofa Warwickshire wool-dealer, or any single countryman whomsoever of thatkind.  He could find none of the men whose knowledge had rescued him andhis children from terrific and disfiguring disease, whose boldness hadraised his forefathers from the condition of serfs, whose wise fancy hadopened a new and high existence to the humblest, whose skill had filledthe working man’s world with accumulated wonders.  Whereas, he did findothers whom he knew no good of, and even others whom he knew much ill of.“Humph!” said he.  “I don’t quite understand it.”So, he went home, and sat down by his fireside to get it out of his mind.Now, his fireside was a bare one, all hemmed in by blackened streets; butit was a precious place to him.  The hands of his wife were hardened withtoil, and she was old before her time; but she was dear to him.  Hischildren, stunted in their growth, bore traces of unwholesome nurture;but they had beauty in his sight.  Above all other things, it was anearnest desire of this man’s soul that his children should be taught.“If I am sometimes misled,” said he, “for want of knowledge, at least letthem know better, and avoid my mistakes.  If it is hard to me to reap theharvest of pleasure and instruction that is stored in books, let it beeasier to them.”But, the Bigwig family broke out into violent family quarrels concerningwhat it was lawful to teach to this man’s children.  Some of the familyinsisted on such a thing being primary and indispensable above all otherthings; and others of the family insisted on such another thing beingprimary and indispensable above all other things; and the Bigwig family,rent into factions, wrote pamphlets, held convocations, deliveredcharges, orations, and all varieties of discourses; impounded one anotherin courts Lay and courts Ecclesiastical; threw dirt, exchangedpummelings, and fell together by the ears in unintelligible animosity.Meanwhile, this man, in his short evening snatches at his fireside, sawthe demon Ignorance arise there, and take his children to itself.  He sawhis daughter perverted into a heavy, slatternly drudge; he saw his son gomoping down the ways of low sensuality, to brutality and crime; he sawthe dawning light of intelligence in the eyes of his babies so changinginto cunning and suspicion, that he could have rather wished them idiots.“I don’t understand this any the better,” said he; “but I think it cannotbe right.  Nay, by the clouded Heaven above me, I protest against this asmy wrong!”Becoming peaceable again (for his passion was usually short-lived, andhis nature kind), he looked about him on his Sundays and holidays, and hesaw how much monotony and weariness there was, and thence how drunkennessarose with all its train of ruin.  Then he appealed to the Bigwig family,and said, “We are a labouring people, and I have a glimmering suspicionin me that labouring people of whatever condition were made—by a higherintelligence than yours, as I poorly understand it—to be in need ofmental refreshment and recreation.  See what we fall into, when we restwithout it.  Come!  Amuse me harmlessly, show me something, give me anescape!”But, here the Bigwig family fell into a state of uproar absolutelydeafening.  When some few voices were faintly heard, proposing to showhim the wonders of the world, the greatness of creation, the mightychanges of time, the workings of nature and the beauties of art—to showhim these things, that is to say, at any period of his life when he couldlook upon them—there arose among the Bigwigs such roaring and raving,such pulpiting and petitioning, such maundering and memorialising, suchname-calling and dirt-throwing, such a shrill wind of parliamentaryquestioning and feeble replying—where “I dare not” waited on “Iwould”—that the poor fellow stood aghast, staring wildly around.“Have I provoked all this,” said he, with his hands to his affrightedears, “by what was meant to be an innocent request, plainly arising outof my familiar experience, and the common knowledge of all men who chooseto open their eyes?  I don’t understand, and I am not understood.  Whatis to come of such a state of things!”He was bending over his work, often asking himself the question, when thenews began to spread that a pestilence had appeared among the labourers,and was slaying them by thousands.  Going forth to look about him, hesoon found this to be true.  The dying and the dead were mingled in theclose and tainted houses among which his life was passed.  New poison wasdistilled into the always murky, always sickening air.  The robust andthe weak, old age and infancy, the father and the mother, all werestricken down alike.What means of flight had he?  He remained there, where he was, and sawthose who were dearest to him die.  A kind preacher came to him, andwould have said some prayers to soften his heart in his gloom, but hereplied:“O what avails it, missionary, to come to me, a man condemned toresidence in this foetid place, where every sense bestowed upon me for mydelight becomes a torment, and where every minute of my numbered days isnew mire added to the heap under which I lie oppressed!  But, give me myfirst glimpse of Heaven, through a little of its light and air; give mepure water; help me to be clean; lighten this heavy atmosphere and heavylife, in which our spirits sink, and we become the indifferent andcallous creatures you too often see us; gently and kindly take the bodiesof those who die among us, out of the small room where we grow to be sofamiliar with the awful change that even its sanctity is lost to us; and,Teacher, then I will hear—none know better than you, how willingly—of Himwhose thoughts were so much with the poor, and who had compassion for allhuman sorrow!”He was at work again, solitary and sad, when his Master came and stoodnear to him dressed in black.  He, also, had suffered heavily.  His youngwife, his beautiful and good young wife, was dead; so, too, his onlychild.“Master, ’tis hard to bear—I know it—but be comforted.  I would give youcomfort, if I could.”The Master thanked him from his heart, but, said he, “O you labouringmen!  The calamity began among you.  If you had but lived more healthilyand decently, I should not be the widowed and bereft mourner that I amthis day.”“Master,” returned the other, shaking his head, “I have begun tounderstand a little that most calamities will come from us, as this onedid, and that none will stop at our poor doors, until we are united withthat great squabbling family yonder, to do the things that are right.  Wecannot live healthily and decently, unless they who undertook to manageus provide the means.  We cannot be instructed unless they will teach us;we cannot be rationally amused, unless they will amuse us; we cannot buthave some false gods of our own, while they set up so many of theirs inall the public places.  The evil consequences of imperfect instruction,the evil consequences of pernicious neglect, the evil consequences ofunnatural restraint and the denial of humanising enjoyments, will allcome from us, and none of them will stop with us.  They will spread farand wide.  They always do; they always have done—just like thepestilence.  I understand so much, I think, at last.”But the Master said again, “O you labouring men!  How seldom do we everhear of you, except in connection with some trouble!”“Master,” he replied, “I am Nobody, and little likely to be heard of (noryet much wanted to be heard of, perhaps), except when there is sometrouble.  But it never begins with me, and it never can end with me.  Assure as Death, it comes down to me, and it goes up from me.”There was so much reason in what he said, that the Bigwig family, gettingwind of it, and being horribly frightened by the late desolation,resolved to unite with him to do the things that were right—at allevents, so far as the said things were associated with the directprevention, humanly speaking, of another pestilence.  But, as their fearwore off, which it soon began to do, they resumed their falling out amongthemselves, and did nothing.  Consequently the scourge appeared again—lowdown as before—and spread avengingly upward as before, and carried offvast numbers of the brawlers.  But not a man among them ever admitted, ifin the least degree he ever perceived, that he had anything to do withit.So Nobody lived and died in the old, old, old way; and this, in the main,is the whole of Nobody’s story.Had he no name, you ask?  Perhaps it was Legion.  It matters little whathis name was.  Let us call him Legion.If you were ever in the Belgian villages near the field of Waterloo, youwill have seen, in some quiet little church, a monument erected byfaithful companions in arms to the memory of Colonel A, Major B, CaptainsC, D and E, Lieutenants F and G, Ensigns H, I and J, sevennon-commissioned officers, and one hundred and thirty rank and file, whofell in the discharge of their duty on the memorable day.  The story ofNobody is the story of the rank and file of the earth.  They bear theirshare of the battle; they have their part in the victory; they fall; theyleave no name but in the mass.  The march of the proudest of us, leads tothe dusty way by which they go.  O!  Let us think of them this year atthe Christmas fire, and not forget them when it is burnt out.***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SOME CHRISTMAS STORIES********** This file should be named 1467-0.txt or 1467-0.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/4/6/1467Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions willbe renamed.Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyrightlaw means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the UnitedStates without permission and without paying copyrightroyalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use partof this license, apply to copying and distributing ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tmconcept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receivespecific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of thiseBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBookfor nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,performances and research. They may be modified and printed and givenaway--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooksnot protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to thetrademark license, especially commercial redistribution.START: FULL LICENSETHE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the FullProject Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online atwww.gutenberg.org/license.Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return ordestroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in yourpossession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to aProject Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be boundby the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from theperson or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph1.E.8.1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement. Seeparagraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of thisagreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("theFoundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collectionof Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individualworks in the collection are in the public domain in the UnitedStates. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in theUnited States and you are located in the United States, we do notclaim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long asall references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hopethat you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promotingfree access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tmworks in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping theProject Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easilycomply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in thesame format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License whenyou share it without charge with others.1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries arein a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of thisagreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or anyother Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes norepresentations concerning the copyright status of any work in anycountry outside the United States.1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or otherimmediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appearprominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any workon which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,performed, viewed, copied or distributed:  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you  are located before using this ebook.1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work isderived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does notcontain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of thecopyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone inthe United States without paying any fees or charges. If you areredistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must complyeither with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 orobtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tmtrademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and anyadditional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional termswill be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all worksposted with the permission of the copyright holder found at thebeginning of this work.1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, includingany word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide accessto or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a formatother than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the officialversion posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expenseto the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a meansof obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "PlainVanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include thefull Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic worksprovided that* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg  Literary Archive Foundation."* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm  works.* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of  receipt of the work.* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms thanare set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writingfrom both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and TheProject Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tmtrademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadworks not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the ProjectGutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, maycontain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurateor corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or otherintellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk orother medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage orcannot be read by your equipment.1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from. If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the mediumwith your written explanation. The person or entity that provided youwith the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy inlieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the personor entity providing it to you may choose to give you a secondopportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. Ifthe second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writingwithout further opportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NOOTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOTLIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types ofdamages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreementviolates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, theagreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer orlimitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity orunenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void theremaining provisions.1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works inaccordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with theproduction, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any ofthe following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of thisor any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, oradditions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) anyDefect you cause.Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety ofcomputers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. Itexists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donationsfrom people in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and futuregenerations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, seeSections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page atwww.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive FoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted byU.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with themailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but itsvolunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerouslocations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, SaltLake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up todate contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site andofficial page at www.gutenberg.org/contactFor additional contact information:    Dr. Gregory B. Newby    Chief Executive and Director    gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4. Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SENDDONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particularstate visit www.gutenberg.org/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. Todonate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donateSection 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the ProjectGutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could befreely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced anddistributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network ofvolunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright inthe U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do notnecessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paperedition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG searchfacility: www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
